A service locator's job is to allow "service" `MonoBehaviours` to register themselves when they awake in the scene, be stored in the service locator's internal dictionary by the `Type` they're registered with.

Service Locator is a **singleton**, meaning it has an `m_instance` variable. On `Awake()`, it should set `m_instance = this`. You'll then go on to access the internal dictioanry through the `m_instance` variable, since it won't be static.

Methods:
	**Register a Service**
		- Add the service into our service dictionary
			- The key is going to be the type we're registering this as
				- Will want to check if there's another registered for that type already. Usually I'd throw my own error with `Debug.Error()` that is a bit more specific and informative than the error unity would itself throw if you try and add to a dictionary if that key is already present.
	**Deregister a Service**
		- Remove the service from the dictionary
			- Should check if it's in there in the first place, otherwise it'll throw an error.
		- This function is less important if all your services will be ever-present, but in the case that you move from a scene that needs a service to another scene that doesn't, having your services deregister themselves in their `OnDestroy()` method (which is a lifecycle method like `Awake()` and `Start()`).
	**Get a Service**
		- Take in a `Type` and grab the service registered to it.
			- Do a check for whether that `Type` exists in the dictionary, probably wanna throw your own error with `Debug.Error()` if it's not.

Because the service locator deals in types, you will be using both `Type` variables and `Generics` to create the Service Locator, which is explained here: [[1. Generics and Type Variables]].

### Service Base Class

Because of the issue presented in the notes on [[3. Generic Constraints]], as well as because our Service classes will likely have some shared logic that we don't want to go rewriting for every new service we create, **creating a base class that all our services extend from is very worthwhile**.

You can read more about inheritance, extending classes, and overriding functions here: [[Class Inheritance]].

### Complex Services

"Complex" services is where we're talking about a situation where we might have multiple versions of a service that are intended to solve the same problem, but for different circumstances. The usual example I provide for this is a case where you've got multiple types of AudioManagerServices - one for users with mono setups, one for stereo setups, one for surround sound setups, etc.

In the codebase, you don't want to have to ask for a *specific* one of these - you just want to ask for `AudioManagerService` and receive whichever one is present. This means that all of these have to register themselves as that type, and we need to be able to tell it to do that while minimizing the amount of extra code we write just to register our services in the first place.

You can read more about this conundrum here: [[2. Complex Services]].