A basic service would be on that registers with the Service Locator as its own type. For example, an `AudioManagerService` that wants to be asked for as an `AudioManagerService`.

But what if we want to have a unique Audio Manager for different usecases - for example, one for users who've got Mono setups, one for users who've got Stereo setups, one for users who have Surround Sound setups. Each one would function differently on an internal level, and so they'd need to be different classes.

Firstly, these "specific" audio manager classes would have to either extend from that base `AudioManagerService` and override its methods to change how they function, while maintaining the same outward signature. Or we could use an interface, like `IAudioManager`, and have them all follow the same overall blueprint. This is all fine, and we know how to do this from the notes on [[Class Inheritance]].

But when it comes to registering them with the ServiceLocator, if treated like basic services, each one would be registered by its own specific type. Meaning, everywhere we want to play a sound, the code would have to know which audio manager it should be speaking to. That's not a good way of doing things.

Instead, what we want is for whichever audio manager is currently present to register itself as a common base class (`AudioManagerService`) or interface (`IAudioManager`). That way the rest of the codebase doesn't have to care which audio manager is doing the work.

### Solving the problem

The problem is that if the base service class takes care of its own registration - which it might do like this:

```csharp
public class ServiceBase : MonoBehaviour {
	void Awake() {
		ServiceLocator.Register(this.GetType(),this);
	}
}
```

This only works if we want to register with our own most specific type. It doesn't allow us to register as a different type.

### Solving it with Type variables

The solution you came up with in our prior discussion was to have a `protected` variable that tracks whether we want to treat this service as a "basic" service (that registers against its own specific type), and another `protected` variable that allows us to tell it which type it should be registered as otherwise.

Basic services can just extend from the base class and not change anything, more complex ones (of which there won't be many) can add a little extra code.

It would look something like this:

```csharp
public class ServiceBase : MonoBehaviour {
	protected bool isBasicService = true;
	protected Type registrationType;

	protected virtual void Awake() {
		if (isBasicService) {
			registrationType = this.GetType();
		}
		ServiceLocator.Register(registrationType,this);
	}
}

public class AudioManagerService : ServiceBase {
	//some virtual functions to be overridden
}

public class MonoAudioManagerService : AudioManagerService {
	protected override void Awake() {
		isBasicService = false;
		registrationType = typeof(AudioManagerService);
		base.Awake();
	}
}
```

We can actually get rid of the boolean (which itself leaves us vulnerable to the possibility that the programmer using it is an idiot and set the boolean to false, but never provided a `registrationType`), and just check if the `registrationType` is null or not. If it's null, assume it's a basic service.

```csharp
public class ServiceBase : MonoBehaviour {
	protected Type registrationType = null;

	protected virtual void Awake() {
		if (registrationType == null) {
			registrationType = this.GetType();
		}
		ServiceLocator.Register(registrationType,this);
	}
}

public class AudioManagerService : ServiceBase {
	//some virtual functions to be overridden
}

public class MonoAudioManagerService : AudioManagerService {
	protected override void Awake() {
		registrationType = typeof(AudioManagerService);
		base.Awake();
	}
}
```

One thing to remember however is that in order for this to work, our ServiceLocator needs to have a `Register()` method that accepts a `Type` variable as one of its parameters. A `Register<T>()` method designed to work with generics will not work, becuase we can't turn our `Type` variable back into a generic.

### Solving it with Generics

This can be solved with Generics as well, and the solution's quite elegant. In between `ServiceBase` and the actual services you write, we include a middle-man in the inheritance chain.

```csharp
public class ServiceBase : MonoBehaviour {
}

public class ServiceBase<TRegistrationType> : ServiceBase
											where TRegistrationType : ServiceBase
{
	private void Awake() {
		//If our Service Locator's Register() method uses Type variables
		ServiceLocator.Register(typeof(TRegistrationType),this);
		//OR
		//If our Service Locator's Register() method uses Generics
		ServiceLocator.Register<TRegistrationType>(this);
	}
}

//The code below is what you'd actually write more regularly, while the code above is a one-time upfront cost.

public class AudioManagerService : ServiceBase<AudioManagerService> {
	//some virtual functions to be overridden
}

public class MonoAudioManagerService : ServiceBase<AudioManagerService> {
	//some virtual functions to be overridden
}

public class StereoAudioManagerService : ServiceBase<AudioManagerService> {
	//some virtual functions to be overridden
}

public class SurroundAudioManagerService : ServiceBase<AudioManagerService> {

}
```

This gives us:

- `ServiceBase`, which exists purely so we can still store all our services in the same internal dictionary in the service locator (which has to be Dictionary<Type,ServiceBase>).
- `ServiceBase<TRegistrationType>` which is what we actually extend our own services from. It also handles the registration with the service locator. Note that it has a constraint on it, to ensure that we aren't registering any services that *aren't* derived from `ServiceBase`.

That's kind of the beauty of generics - the fact that you can write complex code once, and have it cover a wide variety of circumstances, and simplify the code you write more frequently throughout your code base.

### Which do you choose?

Both solutions are entirely adequate. Their "costs" in terms of how much code you're writing and how vulnerable it leaves us to making mistakes are similar, and because those costs arise only when writing *new* services (something we only do a handful of times in a given project), they're not that different.

The Generics approach does come out slightly ahead however, for the simple reason that it doesn't rely on anything at runtime - any coding mistakes we make will show up in the compiler.

The Type variable approach does have one vulnerability - it allows us to give it a `registrationType` of any kind. Service, not a service, integer, string... it'll accept any type we give it, and it won't complain about it until the program is running, making it much easier to miss.

But again - it's code we write a small handful of times, so it's a situation where "just be careful, don't be stupid" is an adequate answer. If we were writing this code hundreds and thousands of times across a codebase however, it'd be a different story.