### Tl;Dr

Type variables, being variables, exist at runtime. You can store them, use them to compare one type to another, but you can't do much else with them. It helps to think of them like literal `string` variables containing the name of the type.

Generics on the other hand are instructions - they can't be stored, but they exist at compile-time meaning you can use them to create other variables of that type. You can think of any time you reference a data type or class name directly as being a Generic.

### More in-depth

### Type Variables
A type variable is a variable that can store a type at runtime. The fact that it's at runtime, rather than compile time, is important because it limits what you can actually do with it. Really, it's limited to being able to compare one `Type` to another - so it can be used to check a type stored in a variable against another one you're expecting, as keys in a dictionary, and they can be passed as parameters to functions like any other variable, but there's not much else they can do.

Having a `Type` stored inside of a type variable does not allow you to create a new variable of that type, because it only exists at run-time. In order to create a variable based on it, the compiler would have to be aware of it.

### Generics
Where Type variables are data that can be stored and passed around, a Generic is more like a piece of code - an actual instruction. It exists at compile time, which means that we can create a variable from a generic's type, but the generic itself cannot be stored in a variable (since variables exist at runtime in memory).

You can actually think of *all* the types you use to define any variable, like `int`, `string`, and `SomeClass` below as Generics too, in that they're instructions telling us what the variables are, how much memory they should set aside, etc:

```csharp
int age; //int is a generic
string name; //string is a generic
SomeClass someObject; //SomeClass is a generic
```

You *can* convert a generic (which exists as an instruction at compile-time) to a `Type` variable (which exists in memory at run-time) as follows:

```csharp
Type type1 = typeof(int);
Type type2 = typeof(string);
Type type3 = typeof(SomeClass);
```

Or, if you already have a variable and you want to create a `Type` variable to represent the type of that variable, everything variable in c# has a `GetType()` function, which can be used as follows:

```csharp
age.GetType(); //returns the same as typeof(int), since age is an int
name.GetType(); //returns the same as typeof(string), since name is a string
someObject.GetType(); //returns the same as typeof(SomeClass)
```

Other notes in this topic:
- [[2. Variable Generics, or Templating]]
- [[3. Generic Constraints]]